=pod

=head1 NAME

DBIx::Class::Manual::Contributing - How to get involved in DBIx::Class

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

=head2 Verify the change you want to make with other users

To save yourself, and the DBIx::Class maintainers time, please take a
moment to verify your ideas with other DBIx::Class users. Use the IRC
channel irc.perl.org#dbix-class or the mailing list
L<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/mailman/listinfo/dbix-class> to get quick feedback
on the change you'd like to make. Your idea may already be a work in progress
you can help contribute to, and avoid duplicating effort, or there may be a
better way to solve your problem.

=head2 Getting the latest content

DBIx::Class's source code is stored in a respoitory using the git version
control system
L<http://git.shadowcat.co.uk/gitweb/gitweb.cgi?p=dbsrgits/DBIx-Class.git>.
There is also a GitHub mirror L<https://github.com/dbsrgits/DBIx-Class> if you
prefer its user interface.
To contribute patches, whether code or for the documentation, please make
sure you have a copy of the latest content.

=head3 Using GitHub

L<http://github.com> allows you to contribute to git based projects
using only your web browser. Use it if you want to make casual/quick
contributions to documentation.

You can also use GitHub to manage your forks of git based projects,
and contribute more complex patches (which require running tests).

=over

=item Create/Login to an account on GitHub

Visit L<http://github.com> and create an account, or login to your existing account.

=item Visit the official DBIx::Class GitHub repo, and fork it

L<http://github.com/dbsrgits/dbix-class> is the official DBIx::Class
repo, use the "Fork" button near the top right of the page to create
your own copy of the repo.

=head2 Submitting simple documentation patches

For pure documentation changes, you can now find the appropriate file
to change using the GitHub interface, hit the "Edit" link and make the
required changes.

=head3 For the CLI people

=over

=item * make sure your name and email is set in the global or repository git config

=item * make the documentation changes

=item * git add -u

=item * git commit -m 'foo'

=item * git format-patch origin/master

=item * nopaste patches

=back

=head3 For point-click people

=over

=item * get a GitHub account or login to your existing account

=item * make a fork of http://github.com/dbix-class/DBIx-Class

=item * in your fork, go to the file, and click edit at the top right of the file viewer

=item * commit your changes with the button at the bottom

=item * paste a link in IRC or do a pull request (preferably the former)

=back

=head2 Submitting bigger features

To make code and test changes, you need to checkout the repository
content onto your own computer, so the tests can be run.

=over

=item * Linux / Unix systems

Run the "git clone" command passing it the url of your DBIx::Class fork, for example:

    git clone https://github.com/yourname/dbix-class.git

This will create a directory "dbix-class" in your current directory,
and extract all the DBIx::Class code into it.

=item * Windows systems

L<msysGit|http://msysgit.github.io> is the most used git client for Windows.
There is also GitHub for Windows L<http://windows.github.com>.

=back

=item Once tested, notify the DBIx::Class maintainers of the changes

To submit changes back to the main DBIx::Class repository, use the
"Send pull request" button on the top right of your GitHub repository page.

Use the IRC channel or mailing list to keep up with the progress of your patch.

=back

=over

=item * make a fork on GitHub or Gitorious

=item * git clone https://github.com/yourname/dbix-class.git

=item * git branch people/yourname/featurename

=item * HACK HACK HACK

=item * git commit -m 'foo'

=item * git rebase --root --onto sc/master

=item * get rid of useless commits and take out warns, commented out code, fixup commit messages, etc

=item * git rebase --root --onto sc/master -i

=item * git push gh

=item * pull request

=back

=head1 MAINTAINERS

=head2 Apply simple documentation patches

=over

=item * download patch

=item * git am patchfile

=item * do the following if the user didn't

=item * git --amend -m $revised_commit_mesg --author 'Firstname Lastname <email>'

=back

=head2 Apply bigger features

=over

=item * git co master

=item * git co -b remote-thingy

=item * git pull https://github.com/contributor/dbix-class.git branch

=item * git log -p

=item * rebase to clean up history if need be

=item * git co master

=item * git merge remote-thingy

=back

=head2 Releases

=over

=item * ensure Changes is up to date

=item * set Changes version and timestamp

=item * bump version in DBIx/Class.pm

=item * git add lib/DBIx/Class.pm Changes

=item * git ci -m 'release $version'

=item * git tag v$version -m '$version tag'

=item * perl Makefile.PL

=item * make manifest

=item * make disttest

=item * make dist

=item * make upload

=item * bump version in DBIx/Class.pm to include _01 for master users

=back

=head2 Synchronize with other mirrors

=over

=item * git clone git://git.shadowcat.co.uk/dbsrgits/DBIx-Class.git --mirror

=item * cd DBIx-Class.git

=item * git remote add github git@github.com:dbix-class/DBIx-Class.git

=item * git fetch --tags --prune origin

=item * git fetch --prune origin

=item * git push --all github

=back
